have
been
interviewed through this one, we should say.
So to jump right into things, I'm going to ask a few
questions, and then if it applies to you, we're going to
clap twice.
So clap twice if you've ever written a Shiny app.
If you've ever written a Shiny app, you should clap twice.
All right?
Clap twice if you remember all of your app's features.
Okay.
And then clap twice if you'd feel
comfortable having a co-worker rewrite part of your app.
Still not a lot of you.
So clap twice if you feel comfortable having a co-worker
rewrite a feature.
This is a big motivation to have
something with automated testing as well.
And having other, working with team members, this brings a big
motivation to have something with automated testing so that
we don't lose our app features or we could have a co-worker
work on a new feature and not have it destroy your existing
features.
And so we'll get into this throughout today.
So this is an example of how you can
do this in a lot of languages.
So this is an example of how you can do this in a lot of
languages, and it does this in very few lines, I believe.
If you were to do this in other languages, it would take a lot
of work.
And it does this by executing reactive expressions within the
server.
And server, like, when you change one of
these reactive values, all downstream
of the server, it will do this.
And it will do this in a lot of languages.
And then, like, as Anika said, there's
this very familiar workflow within Shiny.
And it's where we're going to tweak some of the app, we're
going to add and adjust some of that reactivity.
We'll then click run app, and then this is why we love R,
that we can manually look at it, we can manually iterate on this,
and we can do this every, like, 30 seconds, 10 seconds, even if
you're really quick. And that's why we love R.
And then, like, if you have, like, 20
app, what if you have many team members?
What if you have things where, like, you
know, you can't quite keep it all in your head at once?
And with manually experimenting, things are lost in translation.
Can you explain to your coworker all of your features and have
them make sure they manually test it properly?
Like, I don't believe I could do that, and I'm, like, very
familiar with infrastructure.
And then, like, you can do this, you
can do this, and you can do this, and you can do this.
And there's no rules once you start
doing more than just a toy application.
And Gimli says there's no can do.
So this kind of opens the door to a different package, and this
is the test that package.
The test that package is typically more
than just a test suite, but it's a test that you can build.
And it's a test that you can build.
And I think this is great, you can build your whole test suite
and build out your functionality.
I remember having many situations where we might try to
build out 100 tests, and then let's build those methods and
try to pack those tests. Test-driven development.
You're very aware of what's going on.
You can also have more robust code because maybe you're
testing for chicken fingers.
That's not something that would automatically test by default
during my manual test. If you have better code structure,
because you're breaking your functions down, if you test each
Lego piece of your code, then when you put all that together,
you can believe that you have a strong code structure at the
end. Very robust.
Because you know each component is doing very well.
And then finally, you have call to action.
Right now, I, you know, getting very little sleep. I have a new
baby boy.
And it's wonderful having call to action because, oh, thank
you.
It's, like, you can set in a broken test and say, like, fix
this in the morning, and then you don't need that 45 minutes
to kind of warm up for the day.
You can kind of jump back in and have that test while you are
deep into your coding session.
So let's take a look at test that and kind of see what an
example is.
I talked about those formal tests.
This would be, like, expect equal, where we can do our
standard basic test. Two times two, does it equal four? Yes.
Great.
Kind of a nonstandard one, make it a little bit more robust.
Two times NA, that's an NA integer.
You do NA regular, that's actually a logical, and it would
fail without the underscore NA integer.
And then new to test that edition 3 is snapshot testing.
Snapshot testing is where we don't do an expect equal X to Y.
We say, kind of keep track of this file, and then, you know,
just make sure it doesn't change.
Because that file may contain lots of
content that can't be put into code.
So we can make an example file, and then we can say expect
snapshot file from test that, and it will compare it to say,
did the file change?
Yes or no?
And if it didn't, then the test passed.
So if we run DevTools test within the IDE, you can see that
those three tests pass very quickly, and you get a success.
And test that does a wonderful job of
encouragement, but that was a bad-ass code.
You test over and over again, you get a new random message
every so often.
So I'd like to take these two worlds and combine them into
one.
And here's what we'll get ShinyTest2.
.
The ShinyTest2 is unit testing for Shiny applications.
But I actually want to adjust that a little bit, because it's
very difficult to write all of the unit tests and then fill in
the logic.
Instead, it's more like, you know, I'm
going to write all of the unit tests, and then I'm going to
fill in the logic, and then I'm going to write all of the unit
tests, and then I'm going to fill in the logic, and then I'm
going to write all of the unit tests.
Instead, it's more regression testing for Shiny applications.
In that, you have existing app behavior, and you've seen this
through your own manual testing, and you don't want to lose this.
Typically, we do something like three hours of work, and I want
to make sure that you don't lose that three hours of work, so
we're going to insert a test to make sure that behavior does not
regress or does not go away.
We're going to insert a test to make sure that behavior does not
In Shiny test, the extra helper methods that exist within there,
they all
leverage test that expect snapshot file, so there's
nothing special that Shiny test is doing, it's just kind of
orchestrating everything into a nice, nice package.
We're going to show you a demo of that in a second.
So, Shiny is a premium-based browser,
typically Chrome, and allows you to execute headless browser
tests.
So, it doesn't need to open up, it can
execute just as GitHub action or even hidden in your terminal.
But one of the beautiful things is that you can view that live
test application, and I'll show a demo of that later.
So, that's very, very powerful, and there's a lot of other
powerful
things that Chrome provides, and those are very, very powerful.
So, elephant in the room, what about Shiny test?
Shiny test, if you are familiar with it, it's entering
maintenance mode.
The headless browser has been set on end of life for a few
years now.
It, Phantom JS is not really usable.
It's not compatible with bootstrap 5.
It's not bootstrap 5 compatible, so it's impossible to do these
tests.
So, Shiny test 2, also, it has a different headless browser, so
all of your prior
screenshots, if you had them, they would be a failure, and
that's not something that I want to introduce on everyone.
Also, because of test that, we have a different file structure,
and since we had the opportunity, we also streamlined
it, so it's a little bit different, but it's a little bit
different.
So, it's a little bit different, but it's a little bit easier to
leverage test that, as well, as a different R API, as well.
So, that's why there's two different.
So, before we get into some deeper code, let's look at a
very small toy example, Shiny app, and what it's going to do,
it's going to ask a name, we're then going to greet that name,
and we're going to say, hello, Barrett, that's it.
Very toy app, very complicated, I know.
But it's nice, because we have a text input, we have an action
button, and we also have a text out.
These are very common components within your Shiny application,
and they may be located in very different locations, but, like,
these are a good example of what happens.
If I was to set that up as a test, we would need to set up
our own test that.
So, we would say test that, the app says, hello, Barrett, and
this is in the file there.
And if we were to insert some Shiny test 2 code, you don't
need to know it exactly, but we can kind of walk through it.
Where here, inside the test, we will set up our app driver, this
is the thing that kind of orchestrates everything, gets
the remote going, gets your Shiny app going, and then it
handles all the interactions.
And then we tell the app, hey, set the input, and say, name is
Barrett.
And then, when that's all done, click the greet button, and
then, when everything has been done, as well, say, expect
values, because I want to make sure my inputs and outputs are
consistent.
And I think it's just so beautiful that in four lines of
code, I set up the app, set some inputs, and make expectations,
and it's not a crazy thing to do.
So, let's run that test, because we want to run these tests over
and over, and rapidly, constantly.
In real time, it took a few seconds, not too bad.
Now, your three hours of work that you kind of worked on is
now captured, and being able to replay it in a few seconds.
Make sure that that work is never lost.
But writing tests is hard, says everyone but Hadley.
The good news is, is there's a method called record test.
And I think this is great, because you don't need to write
those tests yourself.
We can capture all of the shiny interactions, and then record
that as a test.
And I really want to stress this, because I love the
McDonald's quote of, if you have time to lean, you have time to
clean.
But in this case, if you have time to rest, you have time to
record a test.
And I think this is great, because you don't need to write
those tests yourself.
And this is because recording these tests is not that long.
When you do your manual testing, it takes just a few seconds.
This whole GIF here is just ten seconds.
It's a very familiar greeting, we do the interactions, and then
I click expect values, and I save an action.
That's it.
So ten seconds for me to go in, do the manual manipulations that
I want, I then save my shiny values, or expect my shiny
values, and I save an action.
And then I click save.
And I think it's just great, and all of your app will live on
the side, and you can see your code update as to what's being
generated.
And then when we're all done, after at least one expectation
is made, then we can save. Great.
That code that was recorded, this is actually what is stored.
So I didn't doctor this one, and it is oddly similar to the one
that we looked at before.
So let's look at that testing.
I want to tell you that always run your DevTools, run these
constantly, because they are fast and quick, not too bad.
And I want to make sure that you don't lose any.
But remember earlier I was talking about how we had promote?
In promote, you can view your headless browser.
If you're familiar with shiny test, it was a black box, you
could only poke it from the outside and pray.
There was not much you could do.
With our app, they are getting more and more complicated, and
that's awesome. It's wonderful to see.
But if it's a headless browser, it means you can't see it, like
our regular browsers today.
But promote allows you to view it, so there's a method you can
run interactively called app dollar or dollar view.
And this is what it will do.
So in this GIF, I have the test on the right that I'm running
interactively in my console, and what we'll do is we will
library shiny test 2.
I will run my app driver, working directory of the app,
call app view.
And this will open up Chrome browser on your local machine.
You can see the app there, and you can, on the right side, you
can also see all of your familiar Chrome debugging tools,
which is great.
You can also see your console at the bottom, and in shiny test,
I'll spit out some information about what's happening, at least
with my knowledge.
If I call set input, you can see the app update live.
It didn't have to do anything, you didn't have to refresh.
When we clicked read, it actually updated live, you can see the
output there.
I think that is just so powerful, because you can be, like,
why is this test not working?
Run, run, run, run, insert app dollar view in the console, and
you can see exactly where it's at.
And you know your app, and you'll be able to discover what's
wrong, whereas shiny test 2 can only tell you what's going on.
So, I have some suggestions as you
leave the shiny Shire, and your way to test.
Number one is to use shiny export test values.
This is a method that I was actually unaware of, and I'm on
the shiny team, and I really want to give it more limelight,
because it is very powerful.
We don't need to test just input and output, there's actually a
third group called export.
And you can export React values, you can export using
React, and you can export your React value, and it doesn't need
to be an input or something that has been rendered as an output.
And this is great, because testing mode will allow for this
to work, and you can expose more information and more work logic
that doesn't be in your normal app that you use day-to-day.
Also, try to limit objects under your own control.
If you do something like data structure, and then you send it
into DT, and DT updates because it needs to, like, nothing
wrong with that.
It's not going to do anything wrong with DT doing that, but
your output might change, which would produce false positives.
So maybe just test your data frame going in, and then just
trust that DT will always run.
Another one is, again, if you use expect snapshot file, be
careful about what's going on with those snapshots.
All the snapshot does is says I agree with myself, but it
doesn't mean that it's correct.
If you do agree with yourself, you are correct, so that's good,
but there's that little logical loophole.
Be safe, you can always use manual expectations or explicit
expectations, such as expect equal, because that will always
be truthful if you're comparing it to a static.
And then, lastly, minimize the number of screenshot
expectations.
Screenshots are worth a thousand tests.
They do test everything, but you can also imagine that's a very
high fallback.
They're very brittle, they're open to a lot of issues, and
also you cannot compare across operating systems or R versions,
so it gets very unwieldy very quickly.
So unless screenshots are absolute, I would argue maybe
not do that.
So recap, regression testing for your app, you want to keep that
behavior over time.
If you have time to rest, you want to keep that behavior over
time.
If you have time to record a test, and then interactively
view your application whenever possible if you run into
problems.
And hopefully Gandalf will change his tune from you shall
not pass to pass.
Thank you.
APPLAUSE
.